docs: update docker login reference (#5386)
docker/cli: docs/reference/commandline/login.md

# login

<!---MARKER_GEN_START-->
Authenticate to a registry.
Defaults to Docker Hub if no server is specified.

### Options

| Name                                         | Type     | Default | Description                  |
|:---------------------------------------------|:---------|:--------|:-----------------------------|
| `-p`, `--password`                           | `string` |         | Password                     |
| [`--password-stdin`](#password-stdin)        | `bool`   |         | Take the password from stdin |
| [`-u`](#username), [`--username`](#username) | `string` |         | Username                     |

<!---MARKER_GEN_END-->

## Description

Authenticate to a registry.

You can authenticate to any public or private registry for which you have

> credentials. Authentication is required for pulling and pushing images. Other

Reviewer: Authentication isn't always required (pulling public images from certain registries).
```suggestion
credentials. Authentication may be required for pulling and pushing images. Other
```

Docker organization.

Authentication credentials are stored in the configured [credential
store](#credential-stores). If you use Docker Desktop, credentials are
automatically saved to the native keychain of your operating system. If you're
not using Docker Desktop, you can configure the credential store in the Docker
configuration file, which is located at `$HOME/.docker/config.json` on Linux or
`%USERPROFILE%/.docker/config.json` on Windows. If you don't configure a
credential store, Docker stores credentials in the `config.json` file in a
base64-encoded format. This method is less secure than configuring and using a
credential store.

`docker login` also supports [credential helpers](#credential-helpers) to help
you handle credentials for specific registries.

### Authentication methods

You can authenticate to a registry using a username and password or access
token. Docker Hub also supports a web-based login flow, which signs you in to
your Docker account without entering your password. For Docker Hub, the `docker
login` command uses a device code flow by default, unless the `--username` flag
is specified. The device code flow is a secure way to sign in. See

> [Authenticate to Docker Hub using device code](#authenticate-to-docker-hub-using-device-code).

Author: Yeah we could... @laurazard do we have some special sauce for handling login differently for non-TTY cases?

> [Authenticate to Docker Hub using device code](#authenticate-to-docker-hub-using-device-code).

Reviewer: Ah, we don't. With `--username`, without setting the password we do error out if non-tty:
```console
$ docker login -u bork 0>/dev/null
Error: Cannot perform an interactive login from a non TTY device
```
But with the device-code flow, we don't:
```console
$ docker login 0>/dev/null

USING WEB BASED LOGIN
To sign in with credentials on the command line, use 'docker login -u <username>'

Your one-time device confirmation code is: JZJG-ZWNM
Press ENTER to open your browser or submit your device code here: https://login.docker.com/activate

Waiting for authentication in the browser…
```

Although in the first case, there's no way for the user to login when non-interactive, but with the device-code flow a user could open the URL and login on another device. Maybe we should though 🤔

> [Authenticate to Docker Hub using device code](#authenticate-to-docker-hub-using-device-code).

Reviewer: Ah, we don't. With `--username`, without setting the password we do error out if non-tty:
```console
$ docker login -u bork 0>/dev/null
Error: Cannot perform an interactive login from a non TTY device
```
But with the device-code flow, we don't:
```console
$ docker login 0>/dev/null

USING WEB BASED LOGIN
To sign in with credentials on the command line, use 'docker login -u <username>'

Your one-time device confirmation code is: <--->
Press ENTER to open your browser or submit your device code here: https://login.docker.com/activate

Waiting for authentication in the browser…
```

Although in the first case, there's no way for the user to login when non-interactive, but with the device-code flow a user could open the URL and login on another device. Maybe we should though 🤔

Credential helpers are specified in a similar way to `credsStore`, but
allow for multiple helpers to be configured at a time. Keys specify the
registry domain, and values specify the suffix of the program to use
(i.e. everything after `docker-credential-`). For example:

```json
{
  "credHelpers": {
    "myregistry.example.com": "secretservice",
    "docker.internal.example": "pass",
  }
}
```

## Examples

> ### Authenticate to Docker Hub using device code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authenticate to Docker Hub with web-based login
```

By default, the `docker login` command authenticates to Docker Hub, using
a device code flow. This flow lets you authenticate to Docker Hub without
entering your password. Instead, you visit a URL in your browser, enter a
code, and authenticate.

```console
$ docker login

USING WEB BASED LOGIN
To sign in with credentials on the command line, use 'docker login -u <username>'

Your one-time device confirmation code is: LNFR-PGCJ
Press ENTER to open your browser or submit your device code here: https://login.docker.com/activate

Waiting for authentication in the browser…
```

After entering the code in your browser, you are authenticated to Docker Hub
using the account you're currently signed in with on the Docker Hub website or
in Docker Desktop. If you aren't signed in, you are prompted to sign in after
entering the device code.

### Authenticate to a self-hosted registry

If you want to authenticate to a self-hosted registry you can specify this by
adding the server name.

```console
$ docker login registry.example.com
```

By default, the `docker login` command assumes that the registry listens on
port `5000`. If the registry listens on a different port, you can specify it

> by adding the port number to the server name.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it assumes port 5000, but will default to `443` (TLS) / `80` (non-TLS). (The examples for the registry tend to use port 5000 though, so maybe that's what you assumed here?)

Author: ops yea my bad!
